# Attend a workshop/event outside of class
### HIST 5152 Reflections Assignment

## About this assignment
Hands-on experience really is the best way to learn how to work with digital tools. We will work on small skills-oriented projects in our Lab during class, but this is a chance for you to engage with a topic or tool that is interesting or important to you personally in a structured, supportive environment.

### Due date
Due by November 28, 2022.

## Directions
1. Check out the Events calendar I've set up for this class to find a topic that you might be interested in. If you find one that isn't listed on the calendar, run it by me;  but it should be fine with me if you go to one of those, instead.
2. Once you've identified your event, make sure to register if necessary and check to see if you might need to prepare anything beforehand (sometimes, you might need to install some software or download a dataset or something along those lines to follow along in the workshop.) 
3. Then, make sure to attend it! Take notes along the way to help aid in your reflection process later.
4. Create a brief recap of the workshop/event answering the questions below.
5. Submit your materials.
  - Need a reminder about how to edit the document? [Directions are here.](https://github.com/HIST5152/assignments/blob/main/README.md#editing-the-documents)
  - Need a reminder about how to submit the document? [Directions are here.](https://github.com/HIST5152/assignments/blob/main/README.md#submitting-the-documents)

## Guidelines for the recap
The recap can take the form of a written essay, a video, a screen recorded demo, an infographic, blog post, or just about any other medium you prefer. In your recap, briefly explain (in no more than 1250 words/ 10 minutes):

1. The name, date, topic, organizer, and other basic details of the workshop.
2. The structure of the workshop: how was it organized (thematically, step-by-step, etc.)? Give details about any processes, lectures, or preparatory work that made up the workshop.
3. How was your experience? Did you learn something new? Were there things that frustrated you, and if so, how did you overcome them (or how might they be overcome next time)?
4. Did you come away with an example/prototype/work-in-progress? Include a link or screenshot if possible.
5. What advice would you give to someone else who might be interested in learning more about this same topic?

### Rubric

## Submit 🎯
Insert any textual elements of your recap here:
  For my workshop reflection, I decided to attend a virtual meeting held over Zoom covering the topics of virtual reality, augmented reality, mixed reality, and their application to our world and even on our campus. The name of the presentation was Introduction to Virtual Reality and it was held on November 3rd by the Temple University Health Sciences Library. The presentation itself was given by Nick Perilli who is an Innovation Librarian at Temple University Ginsburg Health Science Library. This presentation goes over the basic concepts of virtual reality, including a brief history of its inception, the introduction of the metaverse into mainstream culture, virtual reality in the realm of medicine, and how virtual reality can be and is currently being used for other forms of rehabilitation or education.
	The workshop was structured as a lecture supported by Powerpoint slides featuring a comprehensive overview of virtual reality, augmented reality, and mixed reality in the real world. At the end of the presentation, there was a Q & A for attendees who wanted to learn more about trends in virtual reality and gain a better understanding of the topics covered in the presentation. 
  In terms of the actual structure of the presentation, it started off with a general overview of virtual reality, augmented reality, and mixed reality to give attendees a chance to better understand what the field is about and a high level understanding of how it works. A brief history of virtual reality was then presented, which gave viewers an incredible historic perspective on virtual reality.  Once we learned about the history of virtual reality, we moved onto the Metaverse and how it has been evolving since Facebook acquired Oculus. 
After this, we ventured into the most interesting portion of the presentation, in my opinion. We discussed how virtual reality is being used in fields of medicine and rehabilitation around the world and at Temple. More specifically, we looked at virtual reality in medicine, virtual reality medical education, virtual reality empathy training, virtual reality ophthalmology, virtual reality exposure therapy, virtual reality neurorehabilitation, virtual reality dissociation, and virtual reality anesthesiology. Once all of this information was covered, we looked at how virtual reality is being used at Temple for medical purposes. This part of the presentation was especially interesting to me as it gave me valuable insight into how virtual reality is advancing our understanding of the human body and mind right here on campus. 
	I would say that my overall experience with this workshop was positive, as I learned a lot about a topic I thought I already knew quite a bit about. My only complaint was that this should have been done in person instead of over Zoom. If we had done this workshop in person, I feel as if the presenter could have given some of us the opportunity to actually test out virtual reality with our own eyes instead of having to look at the headsets through a camera lens. The presenter would occasionally show us some of the virtual reality headsets he had but this could have been a much more powerful experience if we actually got to use the tools that were discussed. 
  Aside from that, I really did enjoy this workshop and learned a great deal of new information. For starters, I had no idea that the concept of virtual reality began as far back as the 1600s. That, to me, is just mind-boggling and I can’t quite wrap my head around it. Another thing that piqued my interest was virtual reality’s different applications in the medical field. For one, I had no idea that virtual reality could be used for empathy training, but the more I look into it the more intriguing it is. The idea that we can strap something onto our heads and fully immerse ourselves into someone else’s situation is truly a game changer and a feat of technology by itself. I also believe that this type of virtual empathy training should be used more often for students or young professionals in the medical field to give them a better understanding of what a person who is in need of care might see, hear, or feel. The fact that something virtual can actually have an impact on our minds and bodies to give us this sort of out of body experience is beyond my comprehension but at the same time incredibly intriguing and encouraging.. 
	Although this presentation would have been much better in person, I still walked away from it knowing a lot more about virtual reality than I did before. Throughout the presentation, there were videos that correlated with some of the topics which we did not watch but could be accessed later. It would have been nice to watch these videos during the presentation but I also understand that the presenter had limited time to discuss this topic. Luckily for us participants, we all received a copy of the presentation so that we could review information and watch the attached videos on our own time. Even though we did not leave with any prototypes, examples, or works-in-progress, we did leave with plenty of new information about virtual reality and how it can be accessed on Temple’s campus. This was definitely a valuable addition to the presentation as it inspired the participants to do their own research and utilize the great virtual reality headsets we have on campus for both educational and recreational purposes. The presentation ends with a video that we were left to watch on our own, about Temple’s Innovation Space and how it uses virtual reality in different capacities.
	Some advice I would give to someone who might be interested in learning more about this same topic is to experience it for themselves. Find a building on campus that uses virtual reality in any capacity and explore what this new technology has to offer. Virtual reality has become so much more commonplace in our world that it should be accessible to most everyone at most colleges and universities around the world. It’s a growing technology as well so I would recommend keeping up with the news as there are advancements in virtual reality and augmented reality almost every day. Even if someone does not have access to a virtual reality headset, they should definitely look into what is happening with the Metaverse and how virtual reality is being used in different fields of study. Augmented reality is most likely the most accessible item we have as it can easily be used through our cell phones. It’s incredible to see how far virtual reality, augmented reality, and mixed reality have come and I am equally excited to see where it goes from here.

Insert any URLs here: 
https://youtu.be/y5kjJCFSHAs
